PDF OCR Script
This Python script performs OCR (Optical Character Recognition) on PDF files, allowing for text extraction and creating a new PDF with the transcribed text. It utilizes the PyPDF2, pytesseract, and Pillow libraries.

Requirements
Python 3.6 or higher
Tesseract OCR installed on the system
Installation
Install Python 3.6 or higher.
Install Tesseract OCR. On Windows, you can download the installer here.
Install the required Python libraries:
bash
Copy code
pip install PyPDF2 pytesseract Pillow
Configuration
Configure the path to the Tesseract OCR executable in the script. The default path in the script is:

python
Copy code
pytesseract.pytesseract.tesseract_cmd = r'C:\Program Files\Tesseract-OCR\tesseract.exe'
Adjust it as necessary to the correct path of the executable on your system.

Set the path to the PDF file in the script:

python
Copy code
pdf_path = r'C:\Users\bruno\Downloads\Unicesumar\atividade1.pdf'
Usage
Run the Python script:
bash
Copy code
python script_name.py
Replace script_name.py with the name of your script file.

Functionality
The script reads the specified PDF.
Attempts to extract text directly from the PDF.
If images are found in the PDF pages, it performs OCR using Tesseract to extract text from the images.
Creates a new PDF containing the extracted text and saves it in the same directory with the suffix _with_text.
Example Output
The script will print the extracted text to the console and create a new PDF with the transcribed text.

Common Issues
Ensure that Tesseract OCR is correctly installed and the path to the executable is correct.
Verify that the PDF file is in the specified path.
If the extracted text is incorrect, you may need to adjust the Tesseract configuration or the quality of the images in the PDF.
Contributions
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or pull requests in the project repository.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

This README provides an overview of the script, including installation, configuration, and usage instructions. Adjust as necessary to reflect specific details of your environment or any changes made to the script.






